# Towards Comprehensive Detection of Chinese Harmful Meme

**The paper has been accepted in NeurIPS 2024 (Dataset & Benchmark Track). [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.02378)** 

☠️ ***Warning: The samples presented by this paper may be considered offensive or vulgar.***

## 📜 Chinese Harmful Meme

To adapt to the Chinese online environment, we introduce the definition of Chinese harmful memes:

>_**Chinese harmful memes are multimodal units consisting of an image and Chinese inline text that have the potential to cause harm to an individual, an organization, a community, a social group, or society as a whole.** 
These memes can range from offense or joking that perpetuate harmful stereotypes towards specific social entities, to memes that are more subtle and general but still have the potential to cause harm. 
It is important to note that Chinese harmful memes can be created and spread intentionally or unintentionally. **They often reflect and reinforce underlying negative values and cultural attitudes on the Chinese Internet, which are detrimental from legal or moral perspectives.**_


## 📜 ToxiCN MM

According to the definition, we identify the most common harmful types of memes on Chinese platforms, including **_targeted harmful_**, **_general offense_**, _**sexual innuendo**_, and _**dispirited culture**_.
We focus on these harmful types when constructing the dataset.

During the annotation, we label memes from two aspects: **_harmful types_** (i.e., the above four types) and **_modality combination_** (i.e., analyzing toxicity through fused or independent features, including _Text-Image Fusion_, _Harmful Text_, and _Harmful Image_). Finally, we present the ToxiCN MM dataset, which contains 12,000 samples.

To request the datasets, please fill out the following form: [https://forms.gle/UN61ZNfTgMZKfMrv7](https://forms.gle/UN61ZNfTgMZKfMrv7). After we get your request, we will send the dataset to your email as soon as possible.
The dataset labels and captions generated by GPT-4V have been saved as `train_data_discription.json` and `test_data_discription.json` in the `./data/` directory.


## 📜 Detector
We present a **Multimodal Knowledge Enhancement Detector**, incorporating contextual information of meme content generated by the LLM to enhance the detector's understanding of Chinese memes. Dependencies are listed in the `requirements.txt` file.



## ❗️ Ethics Statement
We acknowledge the risk of malicious actors attempting to reverse-engineer memes. **We sincerely hope that users will employ the dataset responsibly and appropriately, avoiding misuse or abuse.** We believe the benefits of our proposed resources outweigh the associated risks. **All resources are intended solely for scientific research and are prohibited from commercial use.**

## ❗️ Licenses
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution- NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International License (CC BY-NC-ND 4.0). 

## Cite
If you want to use the resources, please cite the following paper. The camera-ready version of the paper will be released after the conference:
~~~
@misc{lu2024comprehensivedetectionchineseharmful,
      title={Towards Comprehensive Detection of Chinese Harmful Memes}, 
      author={Junyu Lu and Bo Xu and Xiaokun Zhang and Hongbo Wang and Haohao Zhu and Dongyu Zhang and Liang Yang and Hongfei Lin},
      year={2024},
      eprint={2410.02378},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL},
      url={https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.02378}, 
}
~~~
